# STX0043 - Use Valid Label Keys

## Description

Docker image labels provide metadata about the image. Label keys must follow certain conventions:

-   Start with a lowercase letter (`a-z`).
-   End with a lowercase letter or digit (`a-z` or `0-9`).
-   Contain only lowercase letters, digits, periods (`.`), and hyphens (`-`).
-   Not have consecutive periods (`.`) or hyphens (`-`).
-   Not use reserved namespaces: `com.docker.`, `io.docker.`, or `org.dockerproject.`.

## Why It Matters

-   **Compatibility:**  Using valid label keys ensures compatibility with various Docker tools and services.
-   **Organization:** Following conventions improves the organization and readability of your Dockerfiles.
-   **Interoperability:**  Valid keys ensure that labels can be correctly parsed and used by external tools.

## How to Fix

Ensure your label keys adhere to the specified rules:

-   Start the key with a lowercase letter.
-   End the key with a lowercase letter or a digit.
-   Use only lowercase letters, digits, periods (`.`), and hyphens (`-`) in between.
-   Avoid consecutive periods or hyphens.
-   Do not use the reserved namespaces `com.docker.`, `io.docker.`, or `org.dockerproject.`.

## Example

### Dockerfile Triggering the Rule

```dockerfile
FROM ubuntu:latest

LABEL 1Key=value
LABEL a-key$=value
LABEL a_key=value
LABEL a..key=value
LABEL com.docker.key=value
```

### Corrected Dockerfile

```dockerfile
FROM ubuntu:latest

LABEL a-key=value
LABEL a.valid-key=value
```

## Multiline labels and values between quotes

Labels can be defined on multiple lines and can have values that contains spaces. Spaces within values do not need to be escaped if they are enclosed in single or double quotes.

```dockerfile
FROM ubuntu:latest

LABEL key1=value1 \
      key2=value2 \
      key3='value with spaces' \
      "key4"="value4"
```

## Severity

  - **Style**
