# K8S-STX-0002 - Ensure `imagePullPolicy` is Set to `Always`

## Description

This rule checks if the `imagePullPolicy` is set to `Always` for containers within Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets. Setting `imagePullPolicy` to `Always` ensures that the latest version of the image is pulled every time the Pod is started, even if a local copy is already present.

## Why It Matters

-   **Up-to-Date Images:** Using `Always` ensures that containers always run the most recent version of an image, including any security patches or bug fixes that may have been applied since the last pull.
-   **Consistency:**  Guarantees consistent behavior across different nodes and environments, as the same image will always be used.
-   **Development/Testing:** Useful in development or testing environments where you want to ensure that you're always using the latest build of an image.

## How to Fix

Set the `imagePullPolicy` to `Always` within the container specification of your Pod, Deployment, StatefulSet, DaemonSet, Job, CronJob, or ReplicaSet.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image:1.2.3
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image:1.2.3
    imagePullPolicy: Always
```

## Severity

  - **Low**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the presence of `imagePullPolicy: Always` within the container specification.
-   If `imagePullPolicy` is not specified, Kubernetes uses the following default behavior:
    -   If the image tag is `latest` or not specified, `imagePullPolicy` defaults to `Always`.
    -   If the image tag is anything else, `imagePullPolicy` defaults to `IfNotPresent`.
-   While `Always` is useful in development and testing, it can have performance implications in production. Consider using `IfNotPresent` with specific image tags or digests in production environments to leverage caching and reduce pull times.
-   Setting `imagePullPolicy: Always` also applies to `initContainers`.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on images and the `imagePullPolicy` field.
