# K8S-SEC-0022 - Minimize the Admission of Containers with Capabilities

## Description

This rule detects containers in Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets that have been granted additional Linux capabilities without explicitly dropping all default capabilities first (e.g., using `drop: ["ALL"]`). It also allows configuring a list of allowed capabilities, so only capabilities outside this list will trigger an error.  By default, if no allowed list is specified, the addition of any capability will trigger an error.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security Risks:** Granting additional capabilities to containers increases their privileges and widens the attack surface. If a container is compromised, an attacker might be able to leverage these extra capabilities to perform actions they wouldn't otherwise be able to do, potentially affecting the host system or other containers.
-   **Least Privilege:** Containers should be granted only the minimum privileges necessary to perform their intended function. Adding capabilities without dropping the defaults violates the principle of least privilege.

## How to Fix

-   **Drop all capabilities and add only what's needed:** Configure your containers to drop all capabilities using `securityContext.capabilities.drop: ["ALL"]` and then add back only those that are strictly required using `securityContext.capabilities.add`.
-   **Define an allowed list:** If you need to grant specific capabilities, define an allowed list of capabilities when creating an instance of this rule. Any capabilities added outside of this list will trigger an error.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule (No Allowed List)
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add: ["NET_ADMIN"]
```

### Manifest Triggering the Rule (Allowed List: `NET_BIND_SERVICE`)

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add: ["SYS_TIME"]
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        drop: ["ALL"]
        add: ["NET_BIND_SERVICE"] # Assuming this capability is required and allowed
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Configuration

This rule is configurable. When creating an instance of `K8S_SEC_0022`, you can pass a list of allowed capabilities:

```python
allowed_caps = ["NET_ADMIN", "SYS_TIME"]
rule_instance = K8S_SEC_0022(allowed_capabilities=allowed_caps)
```

If no `allowed_capabilities` list is provided, the rule will trigger an error whenever any capability is added to a container.

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the `securityContext.capabilities.add` and `securityContext.capabilities.drop` fields within container specifications.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [security contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) and [capabilities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#set-capabilities-for-a-container).
-   Refer to the Linux man pages for more information on specific [capabilities](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/capabilities.7.html).
