# K8S-STX-0006 - Configure Liveness Probes for Containers

## Description

This rule checks if Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets have liveness probes configured for their containers. Liveness probes are used by the kubelet to determine when to restart a container.

## Why It Matters

-   **Application Reliability:** Liveness probes help ensure that your application remains available even if it encounters issues like deadlocks or infinite loops. The kubelet will automatically restart containers that fail their liveness probes.
-   **Self-Healing:** By configuring liveness probes, you make your application self-healing, as Kubernetes can automatically recover from certain failures.

## How to Fix

Add a `livenessProbe` field to your container specifications. The liveness probe defines a command, HTTP request, or TCP socket check that is periodically executed to determine the health of the container.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    livenessProbe:
      httpGet:
        path: /healthz
        port: 8080
      initialDelaySeconds: 15
      periodSeconds: 20
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the presence of the `livenessProbe` field within container specifications.
-   There are three types of liveness probes:
    -   **`exec`:** Executes a command inside the container.
    -   **`httpGet`:** Performs an HTTP GET request against the container's IP address.
    -   **`tcpSocket`:** Attempts to open a TCP socket to a specific port on the container.
-   You can configure various parameters for liveness probes, such as `initialDelaySeconds`, `periodSeconds`, `timeoutSeconds`, `successThreshold`, and `failureThreshold`.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [liveness probes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-startup-probes/).
