# K8S-SEC-0006 - Avoid Allowing Privilege Escalation

## Description

This rule detects if the `allowPrivilegeEscalation` field is set to `true` (or is not explicitly set to `false`) in the `securityContext` of containers within Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets. Allowing privilege escalation lets a process gain more privileges than its parent process, which can be a security risk.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security Risks:** If a container is compromised, and privilege escalation is allowed, the attacker might be able to gain root access within the container and potentially break out to the host system.
-   **Least Privilege:**  Containers should be granted only the minimum privileges necessary to perform their intended function.

## How to Fix

-   **Set `allowPrivilegeEscalation: false`:** Explicitly set the `allowPrivilegeEscalation` field to `false` in the `securityContext` of your container specifications.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: true
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
```

## Severity

  - **Warning**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the `allowPrivilegeEscalation` field within the `securityContext` of containers and initContainers in various Kubernetes resources.
-   The default value for `allowPrivilegeEscalation` is `true` if it is not explicitly specified.
-   Even if `allowPrivilegeEscalation` is set to `false`, it might be overridden if `privileged: true` is set. However, using `privileged: true` is generally discouraged.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [security contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/).