# K8S-SEC-0015 - Ensure `securityContext` is Defined for Pods and Containers

## Description

This rule checks if the `securityContext` field is defined for Pods and containers within Kubernetes resources (Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets). The `securityContext` field allows you to specify security-related settings for Pods and containers, such as user ID, group ID, capabilities, and SELinux options.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security:** Defining a `securityContext` is crucial for enforcing security best practices, such as running containers as non-root users, dropping unnecessary capabilities, and using read-only root filesystems.
-   **Least Privilege:** The `securityContext` helps you adhere to the principle of least privilege by granting containers only the necessary permissions to function.
-   **Compliance:** Many security standards and compliance frameworks require the use of `securityContext` to enhance container security.

## How to Fix

-   **Define `securityContext` for Pods:** Add a `securityContext` field to the Pod specification to define security settings for all containers in the Pod.
-   **Define `securityContext` for containers:** Add a `securityContext` field to each container specification to define security settings specific to that container.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  securityContext:
    runAsUser: 1000
    runAsGroup: 1000
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
      capabilities:
        drop:
        - ALL
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the presence of the `securityContext` field at both the Pod level and the container level.
-   When both are defined, the container-level `securityContext` takes precedence.
-   Consider defining both Pod-level and container-level `securityContext` fields to set secure defaults for the entire Pod and override them for specific containers if needed.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [security contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/).
