# K8S-SEC-0016 - Ensure Seccomp Profile is Set to `RuntimeDefault` or `DockerDefault`

## Description

This rule checks if the seccomp profile is set to `RuntimeDefault` or `DockerDefault` for Pods and containers within Kubernetes resources (Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets). Seccomp (Secure Computing Mode) is a Linux kernel feature that allows filtering system calls made by a process. Using the default seccomp profile provides a good balance between security and functionality.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security:**  Restricting the system calls that a container can make reduces the attack surface and limits the potential damage if a container is compromised.
-   **Least Privilege:**  Applying the principle of least privilege, containers should only have access to the resources and system calls they absolutely need.
-   **Compliance:**  Some security standards and compliance frameworks may require the use of seccomp profiles.

## How to Fix

-   **Set `seccompProfile.type`:** Set the `securityContext.seccompProfile.type` field to `RuntimeDefault` or `DockerDefault` in your Pod or container specifications. `RuntimeDefault` is the preferred option in Kubernetes 1.19 and later. `DockerDefault` can be used for compatibility with older versions or specific Docker configurations.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  securityContext:
    seccompProfile:
      type: RuntimeDefault
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      seccompProfile:
        type: RuntimeDefault
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the presence of `securityContext.seccompProfile.type` set to `RuntimeDefault` or `DockerDefault` in both Pod and container specifications.
-   If `securityContext.seccompProfile` is not defined, the behavior depends on the Kubernetes version and the container runtime configuration.
-   You can define custom seccomp profiles, but this is an advanced use case. Ensure you thoroughly understand the implications before using custom profiles.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [seccomp](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/).
