# K8S-SEC-0011 - Minimize the Admission of Containers with Added Capabilities

## Description

This rule detects containers in Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets that have added Linux capabilities that are not in a defined allow list. By default, containers run with a restricted set of capabilities. Adding capabilities beyond the default, especially those not in an allowed list, increases the attack surface of the container.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security Risks:** Granting unnecessary capabilities to containers can increase the impact of a container escape vulnerability. An attacker who compromises a container with extra capabilities might be able to perform actions they wouldn't otherwise be able to do, potentially affecting the host system or other containers.
-   **Least Privilege:** Containers should be granted only the minimum privileges necessary to perform their intended function.  Adding capabilities beyond this minimum set violates the principle of least privilege.

## How to Fix

-   **Review required capabilities:** Carefully evaluate which capabilities, if any, your container actually needs.
-   **Define an allowed list:** Create a list of capabilities that are permitted in your environment. This rule can be configured with this list.
-   **Drop all capabilities and add only those needed:** Ideally, configure your containers to drop all capabilities (`drop: ["ALL"]`) and then add back only those that are explicitly required and allowed.

## Example

Assuming the allowed capabilities are `NET_ADMIN` and `SYS_TIME`:

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add: ["NET_ADMIN", "SYS_PTRACE"]  # SYS_PTRACE is not allowed
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        drop: ["ALL"]                    # Drop all capabilities first
        add: ["NET_ADMIN", "SYS_TIME"]   # Add only what's required and allowed
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Configuration

This rule is configurable. When creating an instance of `K8S_SEC_0011`, you can pass a list of allowed capabilities:

```python
allowed_caps = ["NET_ADMIN", "SYS_TIME", "NET_BIND_SERVICE"]
rule_instance = K8S_SEC_0011(allowed_capabilities=allowed_caps)
```
If no allowed capabilities are provided, any capability added will be considered an error.

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the `securityContext.capabilities.add` field within container specifications.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [security contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) and [capabilities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#set-capabilities-for-a-container).
-   Refer to the Linux man pages for more information on specific [capabilities](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/capabilities.7.html).