# K8S-SEC-0008 - Use Read-Only Root Filesystems for Containers

## Description

This rule detects containers in Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets that do not have a read-only root filesystem. Enforcing a read-only root filesystem for containers is a security best practice that can help mitigate the impact of container escapes and limit the ability of attackers to write to the container's filesystem.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security:** A read-only root filesystem prevents attackers from modifying the container's filesystem, making it more difficult to install malicious software or tamper with existing files.
-   **Immutability:** Enforces immutability at the container level, ensuring that the container's filesystem remains unchanged during its lifetime.
-   **Defense in Depth:**  Adds another layer of security to your containers, complementing other security measures like running as non-root and limiting capabilities.

## How to Fix

Set the `securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem` field to `true` in your container specifications.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: false # Should be true
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the presence of `securityContext.readOnlyRootFilesystem: true` within container and initContainer specifications.
-   If `securityContext` or `readOnlyRootFilesystem` are not defined, the rule will trigger, as the default for `readOnlyRootFilesystem` is `false`.
-   When using a read-only root filesystem, ensure that any necessary directories that require write access are mounted as volumes.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [security contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/).

