# K8S-SEC-0009 - Minimize Admission of Root Containers

## Description

This rule checks if containers in Kubernetes Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, and ReplicaSets are configured to run as root. Running containers as root grants them excessive privileges and increases the security risk in case of a container escape vulnerability.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security Risks:** A container running as root has the same privileges as a root user on the host. If compromised, it could allow an attacker to gain root access to the host system.
-   **Least Privilege:** Containers should be granted only the minimum privileges necessary to perform their intended function. Running as root violates this principle.

## How to Fix

-   **Use `runAsNonRoot`:** Set the `securityContext.runAsNonRoot` field to `true` in your container specifications to force the container to run as a non-root user.
-   **Specify `runAsUser`:**  Set the `securityContext.runAsUser` field to a specific non-root user ID (UID).
-   **Create a non-root user in your Dockerfile:** Use the `USER` instruction in your Dockerfile to create and switch to a non-root user before running your application.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-root-container
    image: my-image
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-non-root-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      runAsNonRoot: true
```

Or

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-non-root-container
    image: my-image
    securityContext:
      runAsUser: 1000 # Replace with a suitable non-root user ID
```

## Severity

  - **Warning**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the absence of `securityContext.runAsNonRoot: true` or `securityContext.runAsUser` with a non-zero value within container specifications.
-   If `securityContext.runAsNonRoot` is set to `true`, the container will not be allowed to run as root, even if the image itself specifies the root user.
-   If `securityContext.runAsUser` is set to a non-zero value, the container will run as that specific UID, regardless of the user specified in the image.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [security contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/).

