# K8S-STX-0004 - Avoid Using the Default Namespace

## Description

This rule detects the use of the `default` namespace in Kubernetes resources (Pods, Deployments, etc.).  While using the `default` namespace is not technically an error, it is generally not recommended for production environments.

## Why It Matters

-   **Organization:** Using dedicated namespaces helps organize resources and improve the overall structure of your Kubernetes cluster.
-   **Security:**  Namespaces can be used to implement resource quotas and network policies, providing a layer of isolation and security between different applications or teams.
-   **Maintainability:**  Explicitly defining namespaces makes it easier to manage and troubleshoot resources.
-   **Accidental Disruption:** Tooling setup using the `default` namespace can lead to accidental disruption with other services using the same default namespace.

## How to Fix

-   **Create dedicated namespaces:** Create separate namespaces for your applications, teams, or environments (e.g., `dev`, `staging`, `production`).
-   **Specify the namespace:** Use the `namespace` field in the `metadata` section of your Kubernetes resources to specify the desired namespace.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  # namespace: default (implicit)
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  namespace: my-app-namespace
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks the `metadata.namespace` field of common Kubernetes resources.
-   If the `namespace` field is not specified, Kubernetes defaults to the `default` namespace.
-   The `default` namespace should generally be avoided for production workloads.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [namespaces](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/).
