# K8S-SEC-0003 - Prevent Sharing the Host's IPC Namespace

## Description

This rule detects if Pods, Deployments, StatefulSets, DaemonSets, Jobs, CronJobs, or ReplicaSets are configured to share the host's inter-process communication (IPC) namespace. Sharing the host's IPC namespace allows a container to communicate with other processes on the host system using IPC mechanisms, potentially leading to security vulnerabilities.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security Risks:** Sharing the host's IPC namespace breaks the isolation between containers and the host. A compromised container could use IPC to interfere with or manipulate processes on the host system or in other containers.
-   **Isolation:** Containers should generally be isolated from each other and the host system to limit the impact of a security breach.

## How to Fix

-   **Pod:** Ensure that the `hostIPC` field in the Pod specification is set to `false` or not defined (it defaults to `false`).
-   **Other resources (Deployment, DaemonSet, etc):** Ensure that the `hostIPC` field in the Pod template specification is set to `false` or not defined.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  hostIPC: true
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  hostIPC: false # Or remove this line as it defaults to false
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
```

## Severity

  - **Medium**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the `hostIPC` field in Pod specifications, as well as in the Pod template specifications of controllers like Deployments and DaemonSets.
-   The default value for `hostIPC` is `false` if it is not explicitly specified.
-   Consider the security implications carefully before allowing a container to share the host's IPC namespace.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on Pod specifications and security best practices.