# K8S-SEC-0021 - Avoid Using Secrets as Environment Variables

## Description

This rule detects if Kubernetes secrets are used as environment variables in containers. Secrets can be mounted as data volumes or exposed as environment variables.  While both methods are supported, using environment variables to pass secrets to containers is generally discouraged in favor of mounted volumes.

## Why It Matters

-   **Security Risks:** Environment variables can be easily exposed through logging, error messages, or debugging tools. If a secret is passed as an environment variable, it might be inadvertently leaked.
-   **Visibility:** Environment variables are more readily visible than mounted secrets. For example, they might be visible using `kubectl describe pod` or in container logs.
-   **Best Practices:** Mounting secrets as volumes is considered a more secure and recommended practice, as it allows for more granular control over access and permissions.

## How to Fix

-   **Mount secrets as volumes:** Instead of passing secrets as environment variables, mount them as volumes in your container. This allows you to control file permissions and access more precisely.
-   **Use dedicated secret management tools:** Consider using Kubernetes Secrets or external secret management solutions (e.g., HashiCorp Vault) to manage sensitive data.

## Example

### Manifest Triggering the Rule

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    env:
      - name: MY_SECRET
        valueFrom:
          secretKeyRef:
            name: my-secret
            key: my-secret-key
```

### Corrected Manifest

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: my-container
    image: my-image
    volumeMounts:
    - name: my-secret-volume
      mountPath: /etc/secrets
      readOnly: true
  volumes:
  - name: my-secret-volume
    secret:
      secretName: my-secret
```

## Severity

  - **Info**

## Other Relevant Information

-   This rule checks for the use of `secretKeyRef` in the `valueFrom` field of environment variables and for the use of `secretRef` in `envFrom`.
-   Mounting secrets as volumes allows you to set file permissions and control access more effectively.
-   Consider using dedicated secret management tools for more advanced secret management capabilities.
-   Refer to the Kubernetes documentation for more information on [secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/).
